[DRUMS PLAYING]
>> Omega's a place for people
to deal with the experience
of life.
>> --come home to themself.
>> Seekers of all kinds.
>> A spiritual community.
>> All paths move--
>> --house with many rooms.
>> The ticket into spirituality.
>> Spirit of holistic education.
>> Kindred spirit.
>> The sense of what it would
be like to really be themselves.
>> Retreats have
always been important.
>> Learning environment--
>> Omega is a great gift.
>> You're always
going to the desert.
>> There's hundreds of
thousands of secrets.
>> A tool for unity--
>> You always retreat.
>> Refuge in the 21st century.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I live in the Central
Pennsylvania area.
I'm married to
John, who's great.
And I do consulting work.
Part of my time is spent
doing strategic planning
with non-profits.
And part of my time is spent
teaching mind body health.
I had a lot of health
problems in my life,
starting from a girl.
And looking back
on that, I believe
that that made me a seeker,
because I never really wanted
to accept that this was my
fate, or this was my life,
to live other than being
very healthy and vital.
I started with endometriosis
as a teenager, which
is a reproductive disease.
I have thyroid disease,
Sjogren's syndrome
at one point, which is
an autoimmune disease.
Lots of joint aches
that were unexplainable.
And so I think that was maybe
part of the picture, too, was,
you know, gee, you
don't just have this,
but you have this and this.
So I was kind of going
along, seeking, searching.
But really wasn't a
spiritual sort of search.
It was more from the outside in.
And when I was 40,
the endometriosis
got so bad that I
realized that I really
need to do something about it.
And the choice that most
medical science has for women
is a hysterectomy.
So that was the
course I opted for.
And I had that surgery, and
I was under the impression
that that was a cure.
And so I had it and recovered.
And I wasn't happy about
it, because I felt like I
was losing part of myself.
So a year went by, close to
a year and a half went by,
and I started to feel the
same sort of pain and symptoms
that I had prior to
the hysterectomy.
And my mind was saying,
well, that can't be,
because this was a cure.
So this must be something else.
I did some testing and, you
know, back to the doctor
I went.
And you know, sure
enough, it was back.
When that happened to
me, I was devastated.
Having been through
a surgery, you
know the pain, the suffering,
the disruption of your life.
I mean, I was as low as I
ever have been in my life.
And like I said,
there was no way out.
So you come face to face with
yourself, because there's no--
there's nothing else.
So as I was leading up to the
days of the second surgery,
and just, you know, at a
point of complete suffering,
that's all I can
really describe it as.
I don't have any
other words for it.
I started to pray.
And I always had faith
and belief in God,
but I don't think
I ever, you know,
was kind of put to
the test, so to speak.
So really, what I was
praying for was peace
from this suffering and fear.
The day before the surgery
came, and I woke up that day
and I felt peaceful.
I felt an absence of the
fear and pain and suffering.
And I thought, you know,
my prayers were answered.
And I felt very grateful.
And it opened my
eyes to something
that I had obviously missed,
which was relying on my faith.
We can say that we
believe, and we do.
And we mean it.
But saying it and practicing
it are two different things.
So I had to come into
another level of that faith
and realize that I
could talk to God.
God would listen and
answer my prayer.
And I had it demonstrated for
me, you know, very powerfully.
So that opened me
up to, you know,
well, gee, there's more
to this than I thought.
I actually had a
relationship with God.
I didn't realize that was
possible on that level before.
So went into the surgery,
came out the other side.
It was a long and slow recovery.
I was faced with
myself and my life.
And I really did open
to that opportunity.
And what I came
to the realization
was that a job that I
had been in for 18 years
was really no longer serving me.
And I realized I
didn't want to go back.
However, that was
a hard decision,
because I knew a lot of
people wouldn't understand.
It was a good job.
I was earning good money.
I had lots of friends.
You know, so how do
you explain that?
So I started with my husband,
who was actually wonderful
and understood.
I decided to go back to
work and train a replacement
and, you know, in
essence, give my notice.
And so I did that.
And when I did
that, I had nothing
to go to except back to myself.
So I continued sort
of to learn more
about this spiritual
sort of side of myself
that had opened up.
And I looked at
illness differently.
I looked at the whole
thing as, you know,
a mind, body, spirit
experience, rather than
a physical breakdown
of the body.
I started to meet teachers.
You know that saying of
when the student is ready,
the teacher will come?
I would meet teachers
who would start
to put the pieces of this mind,
body, spirit sort of approach
to health together for me.
I examined energy work and
how that related to wellness.
I started to meditate.
I started to use visualization
and guided imagery.
My relationship with God
has changed and grown
because I have realized that
I'm more than my physical self.
So in doing that, I really
have opened my heart.
I've opened my
heart to compassion,
to love, and to service.
So I've followed a
very different path
since I've had that opening.
I went through four jobs, just
in search of didn't know what.
But it kind of got to be
a joke with my friends
after awhile like, oh,
what are you doing now?
And I could only
imagine what they
might have said behind my back.
But I really didn't
care anymore,
because what it was
all about for me
was finding the truth of myself.
And that was my journey.
And that's what I
was looking for.
And it didn't matter
what anyone else thought.
So that led me to
really realizing
that my passion was
mind body health.
And when I connected
with my passion,
my life changed again
in a really great way.
I went to a professional
training program.
I learned more about
mind body health.
And I just realized
that, you know,
from my own experience
in life, that I
can help others to
understand where
they might be at, especially
through disease and illness.
That's what I
really connect with.
And so I followed that path.
And I'm doing
consulting work now.
I'm teaching people how
to perceive mind body
health in a different way
than they might have thought
they could, that they
can reduce their stress,
that they can cope with
life challenging illness
differently, more holistically,
you know, more centered,
more with spirit.
And it's been really
rewarding and fulfilling.
>> For my story, I was a
professional runner and had
ripped my Achilles tendon
and was surgically repaired.
And during my blood
work, the doctors
found that my adrenals,
kidney, and livers were not
functioning.
And my story is
dramatic but very true.
I had been told that
I had six months
to live, along with the fact
that my Achilles tendon was
never going to be proper again.
In terms of that, I would
be limping most my life
and had loss of range of motion.
And really, I was at the pit
or the bottom of my life,
having been told
that I was going
to die because of my blood.
And I began to practice.
And within a week, my
Achilles tendon, or my foot
rather, regained its
motion, its dorsiflexion.
And then through the yogic
practice and a yogic diet,
my blood came back to normal.
I had blood work
done two years later,
sent the results back to my
orthopedic surgeon in Texas,
and he was convinced
it was a miracle.
Well, the miracle was
the yogic practice.
[INAUDIBLE] face up.
Jump up [INAUDIBLE].
Exhale.
Then take your breathing.
Now one.
I came to yoga for
physical reasons.
I was becoming a Catholic
priest as a youngster
and was at seminary program.
Because of the doctrines of
what was happening at the time,
I left the church.
I didn't really leave
my spirit, but I
left the church, which to me
at the time was spirituality.
Breathe now one.
I came to yoga looking
for physical help.
But what I really found,
I came home to my spirit.
I came home to my heart.
So I'm a classic example
of somebody coming in,
thinking for physical reasons,
but then really finding
my spirit and my
spiritual path again.
>> I'm a mom.
And the soul story that
I would like to tell
is about my son, Joshua.
When I was pregnant,
I had an experience
that was pretty amazing.
I was in labor for
24 and 1/2 hours.
I was in a lot of pain.
And I didn't know any better.
I'd never had a baby.
And it hurt.
So after he was born, I was
told that three days later I
should be back to normal.
Well, I wasn't.
I couldn't walk.
I walked like an old
person, bent over.
I couldn't straighten my legs.
So my husband drove
me to the hospital.
It was scary.
I didn't know what
was wrong with me.
I went in for
exploratory surgery.
It had turned out
that my appendix
had ruptured and burst.
Peritonitis had set in.
They drained a pint
of fluid from my body.
I was in medical journals.
I nearly died.
And then the next
time I woke up,
a nurse was pumping my breasts
to keep the milk flowing.
And I wanted to ask
her what condition
I was in, but all that came
out of my mouth was water.
It's like my brain and my
other brain wasn't working.
I don't know.
So I closed my
eyes, and I asked,
I guess God, or myself,
what would happen if I died.
Because I knew that I was--
I knew that I could go.
I knew that.
And so I thought of my husband.
And his name is Spencer.
And I knew that Spencer would
be OK, that he would be in pain,
but he would go on with this
life and he would be fine.
And then-- now keep in mind, my
son was newborn, a week old--
I saw my son in an
oval picture frame.
And the picture I saw was
him when he was three.
Literally, he was three.
And he said to me,
mommy, don't go.
And so I didn't go.
And so what that did for
me is that I was so sick,
and in so much pain, that I
learned a couple of things.
One is that it is
absolutely amazing
how much pain a human body
can withstand and survive.
And two, death isn't
something to be feared.
So that's what I learned.
And I'll never forget it.
This is Josh.
This is after my operation.
That's after my second
son was born, just after.
That's what he looked
like when I saw him.
He was a little younger.
And that's about what
he looks like now,
except he's got long hippy
hair, like this, which is great.
And then--
I guess the way it affects me
today is I have a joy for life.
I have an appreciation
for nature and children.
Any child is a gift.
Nature is a gift.
Being alive is a gift.
And yet, it's OK when
I hear of people dying.
It's OK that they die, because
it's what's supposed to happen.
It's part of life.
So it just helps me be more
centered and more trusting.
That's really what it does.
I'm from Belgium, and this is
my story how I changed my life.
I used to be a very much
career oriented person.
For 20 years that was the most
important part of my life,
together with having a
nice house, and a nice car,
and a good job, and all the
money and all the things
that come along.
And I had decided to do what
it took to achieve that.
So little by little, I
taught myself in many fields.
I was fortunate to be
prolific in languages.
And I taught myself
to type and to work
on a computer and all that.
So after a few years, I
became a very highly paid
executive assistant.
And for a while,
I even enjoyed it.
But after some
time, I really was
wondering what the point was,
and why I wasn't feeling happy,
and why I wasn't
fulfilled, and why I still
had this feeling of emptiness
and of yearning, really.
And a few years ago, I started
to feel very weak and very ill.
And I found out I had
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome.
And in the beginning I wasn't
too worried, because I thought,
you know, it will just go
away and I'll get better.
But it didn't get better.
And I tried several
therapies, homeopathy
and other alternative therapies.
I became a vegetarian.
But in the end, I found that my
energy level was continuously
going down.
And I felt that that was really
leading to the end of my life,
prematurely.
And I was really desperate.
And one day, my homeopath doctor
advised me to try acupuncture.
And he sent me to a woman
doctor who was really
applying light therapy.
And while she checked me out,
as is the regular practice,
she told me that my
energy was really so
low she couldn't really even use
the needles for the acupuncture
therapy, because that
would take away more energy
than it would give me.
But little by little, the
light therapy helped me.
And I began to feel that I
became a little bit stronger
again, although I had to return
for treatment once a week.
Slowly, twice a week, three
times a week, once a month.
And I started wondering
what I did wrong,
why I had to go and
get this treatment,
and why I wasn't able to build
up my energy myself and feel
healthy and energetic
and to enjoy my life.
So I talked about
it with her, and she
advised me to try Tai Chi.
And that was a
revelation for me.
It showed me that I could
access my own natural energy,
the cosmic energy.
And it also gave me this
feeling that I was really alive,
that this very vibrant life was
inside me, and it was moving,
and I could experience it.
And it was a
wonderful experiment.
And it was a wonderful feeling.
I was extremely grateful for it.
After having done Tai
Chi for some time,
I was introduced to
classes in body work.
And I started to do
a little bit of that.
It was related,
somewhat, to Shiatsu,
but I felt it was a little
bit too physical for me.
But it still taught
me a few things
about what happens in the body.
And so it was still
very interesting.
But little by little, and
after several teachers,
I felt that it was
not for me just
to copy what the other
people were doing.
And I started to look
for my own thing,
to find out what
was right for me.
And I began to feel more
confident that I could really
do my own meditation, that I
could do my own energy work.
And little by little,
people came to me
and asked me to help them.
And that's how I
started healing.
It's not a physical
way of healing.
It's very much working into
the aura around the chakras.
I use my hands and the way
that I feel in my hands
and in my own body what's
happening for the person
and what they need.
So I really want,
now, to pursue this
and to continue in this field.
And I really am grateful
for the things that
happened to me, although
it seemed in the beginning
that it was going in
a very bad direction.
Becoming sick and
a whole process
of changing the focus of my
life to more spiritual matters,
the first step was
really to work part time.
And I thought, you
know, that that
would allow me to
live the balance
between the spiritual part of
life and the material needs.
But I feel now that's not
really working, because you
need to shift all the time.
And it's really very disturbing.
And so that was 3
and 1/2 years ago.
And now I recently decided
to stop work altogether
and to really explore
my own way and how I
can be of help to other people.
I also found out
if you are happy,
if you're peaceful, if
you're not judgemental,
this is like a
contagion around you.
And it's sometimes
really funny to see,
but very often
it's just a grace.
And I'm very grateful for that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]